README.md, before:


# Infrahub

Infrahub is taking a new approach to Infrastructure Automation by providing a new generation of datastore to organize and control all the data that defines how an infrastructure should run.

At its heart, Infrahub is built on 3 fundamental pillars

- Powerful Schema, easily extensible
- Unified Version Control for Data and Files
- Data Synchronization with Traceability and Ownership

## Getting Started

The project in Github is organized around 2 main branches:

- The `stable` branch (default) for the latest release, this is the recommended version for most users
- The `develop` branch where the preparation of the next major release is done.

The documentation is available for both branches and include a complete Getting Started Guide with instructions on how to setup Infrahub and multiple Articles and Guides to help you get started.

[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/Documentation%20for%20stable-0B97BB?style=for-the-badge)](https://docs.infrahub.app/)

[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/Documentation%20for%20develop-0B97BB?style=for-the-badge)](https://develop.infrahub.pages.dev/)

> The documentation is currently protected by password : `cXsivxXAgL7Hae`

## Start a live instance of Infrahub (in the Cloud)

Leveraging a service name [`Codespace` from Github](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/overview), it's possible to start a fresh instance of Infrahub in the Cloud in minutes. This is the recommmended method to try Infrahub as it reduces the effort to setup Infrahub to couple of clicks.

> The cost for running an Infrahub in Codespace is covered by OpsMill

See the table below to select the right environment for you, based on the branch and the initial data you would like in your instance.

|  | Branch `stable` | Branch `develop` |
|---|---|---|
| Run Default version of Infrahub in Codespace | [![Start in Codespace (stable), without data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20stable%20version-0B6581?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=stable ) | [![Start in Codespace (develop), without data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20develop%20version-0B6581?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=develop ) |
| Run Demo version of Infrahub in Codespace | [![Start in Codespace (stable), with demo data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20stable%20version%20demo%20data-0D3F54?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdemo-container%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=stable ) | [![Start in Codespace (develop), with demo data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20develop%20version%20demo%20data-0D3F54?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdemo-container%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=develop) |

Commit message:

Readme files cleanup (#2069)
* Readme files cleanup

* resolve conflict

* typo

* fix linting

* more linting

* lint lint

README.md, after:


<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
![](./docs/media/Infrahub-horizontal.svg)
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->

# Welcome to Infrahub

Infrahub is taking a new approach to Infrastructure Management by providing a new generation of datastore to organize and control all the data that defines how an infrastructure should run.

At its heart, Infrahub is built on 3 fundamental pillars:

- **Powerful Schema**: that's easily extensible
- **Unified Version Control**: for data and files
- **Data Synchronization**: with traceability and ownership

## Quick Start

Leveraging [Codespaces](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/overview) from Github, it's possible to start a fresh instance of Infrahub in the Cloud in minutes. This is the recommended method to try Infrahub as it reduces the effort to setup Infrahub to a couple of clicks. Use the table below to select the right environment for you, based on the branch and the initial data you would like pre-loaded in your instance.

- The `stable` branch is for the latest release; this is the recommended version for most users.
- The `develop` branch is where the preparation of the next major release is done.
- The `Default` version does not include a schema or data pre-loaded.
- The `Demo` version includes a pre-loaded schema and a sample network dataset.

> [!NOTE]
> The documentation includes how to get setup and start using Infrahub. The documentation is currently protected by password : `cXsivxXAgL7Hae`

|  | Branch `stable` | Branch `develop` |
|---|---|---|
| Run Default version of Infrahub in Codespaces | [![Start in Codespaces (stable), without data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20stable%20version-0B6581?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=stable ) | [![Start in Codespaces (develop), without data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20develop%20version-0B6581?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=develop ) |
| Run Demo version of Infrahub in Codespaces | [![Start in Codespaces (stable), with demo data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20stable%20version%20demo%20data-0D3F54?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdemo-container%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=stable ) | [![Start in Codespaces (develop), with demo data](https://img.shields.io/badge/Start%20develop%20version%20demo%20data-0D3F54?style=for-the-badge)]( https://codespaces.new/opsmill/infrahub?devcontainer_path=.devcontainer%2Fdemo-container%2Fdevcontainer.json&ref=develop) |
| Documentation | [![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/Documentation%20for%20stable-0B97BB?style=for-the-badge)](https://docs.infrahub.app/) | [![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/Documentation%20for%20develop-0B97BB?style=for-the-badge)](https://develop.infrahub.pages.dev/) |

> [!TIP]
> The cost for running an Infrahub instance in Codespaces is covered by OpsMill

## Documentation

If you'd like to learn more about Infrahub or deploy via alternate means, please check out the documentation:

- [Infrahub Documentation](./docs/readme.md)
- [Deploy the demo environment on your laptop](./docs/tutorials/getting-started/#prepare-the-demo-environment)
