docs/docs/tutorials/getting-started/readme.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started with Infrahub
---
import ReferenceLink from "../../../src/components/Card";

# Getting started with Infrahub

:::note

This tutorial doesn't require any prior knowledge, but knowledge of Git, GraphQL, and Python will make things easier to understand.

:::

This tutorial will get you started with Infrahub and it will help you get familiar with some of the main components and concepts behind Infrahub. To do that we'll use a sample dataset that represents a small network with 6 devices. This tutorial will teach you:

- How to manage branches and query any branches.
- How to integrate a Git repository within Infrahub.
- How to generate Jinja2 template.
- How to expose a new Data Transformation endpoint.
- How to validate data within the CI/CD pipeline.
- How to extend the current schema.
- How to query data via the GraphQL interface.
- How to modify data via the REST API.
- How to query for past state via the GraphQL interface.

The tutorial is meant to be executed in order, as we'll be making some changes along the way that might be required later.

## Prepare the demo environment

### Pre-requisites

In order to run the demo environment, the following packages or applications must be installed on the systems:

- Docker (version 24.x minimum) & Docker Compose
- git
- [pyinvoke](https://www.pyinvoke.org/)
- [toml](https://pypi.org/project/toml/)

:::tip

On a Laptop, both Docker & Docker Compose can be installed by installing [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).

:::

### Download Infrahub

Refer to the [Installation Documentation](/guides/installation).

### First utilization

Before the first utilization you need to build the images for Infrahub with the command:

```bash
invoke demo.build
```

Initialize the database and start the application

```bash
invoke demo.start
```

### Control the local environment

- `invoke demo.start` : Start all the containers in detached mode.
- `invoke demo.stop` : Stop All the containers
- `invoke demo.destroy` : Destroy all containers and volumes.

:::info

`invoke demo.debug` can be used as an alternative to `invoke demo.start`, the main difference is that it will stay *attached* to the containers and all the logs will be displayed in real time in the CLI.

:::

## Accounts available for the tutorial

At this stage only one Account existed on Infrahub `admin`.

:::info

The default token for the Admin account is `06438eb2-8019-4776-878c-0941b1f1d1ec`
While using the API the Authentication Token must be provided in a header named `X-INFRAHUB-KEY`

:::

More accounts will be loaded with the [demo data](/topics/local-demo-environment#load-some-data).

Refer to [User management](/topics/auth/) page for more information regarding the possible rights.

To follow the tutorial you should use the `admin` account but you can try the other accounts too to see how the interface behaves with different permission levels.

| name          | username        | password      | role       |
| ------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Administrator | `admin`         | `infrahub`    | admin      |
| Chloe O'Brian | `Chloe O'Brian` | `Password123` | read-write |
| David Palmer  | `David Palmer`  | `Password123` | read-write |
| Jack Bauer    | `Jack Bauer`    | `Password123` | read-only  |

<ReferenceLink title="Access the Web interface" url="http://localhost:8000" openInNewTab />

<ReferenceLink title="Access the GraphQL interface" url="http://localhost:8000/graphql" openInNewTab />

Commit message:

add hardware requirements to getting started tutorial

docs/docs/tutorials/getting-started/readme.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started with Infrahub
---
import ReferenceLink from "../../../src/components/Card";

# Getting started with Infrahub

:::note

This tutorial doesn't require any prior knowledge, but knowledge of Git, GraphQL, and Python will make things easier to understand.

:::

This tutorial will get you started with Infrahub and it will help you get familiar with some of the main components and concepts behind Infrahub. To do that we'll use a sample dataset that represents a small network with 6 devices. This tutorial will teach you:

- How to manage branches and query any branches.
- How to integrate a Git repository within Infrahub.
- How to generate Jinja2 template.
- How to expose a new Data Transformation endpoint.
- How to validate data within the CI/CD pipeline.
- How to extend the current schema.
- How to query data via the GraphQL interface.
- How to modify data via the REST API.
- How to query for past state via the GraphQL interface.

The tutorial is meant to be executed in order, as we'll be making some changes along the way that might be required later.

## Prepare the demo environment

### Pre-requisites

The system that you want to use to run the demo environment has to meet the [hardware requirements](/topics/hardware-requirements). Alternatively you can run Infrahub in [GitHub codespaces](/guides/installation#github-codespaces).

In order to run the demo environment, the following packages or applications must be installed on the systems:

- Docker (version 24.x minimum) & Docker Compose
- git
- [pyinvoke](https://www.pyinvoke.org/)
- [toml](https://pypi.org/project/toml/)

:::tip

On a Laptop, both Docker & Docker Compose can be installed by installing [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).

:::

### Download Infrahub

Refer to the [Installation Documentation](/guides/installation).

### First utilization

Before the first utilization you need to build the images for Infrahub with the command:

```bash
invoke demo.build
```

Initialize the database and start the application

```bash
invoke demo.start
```

### Control the local environment

- `invoke demo.start` : Start all the containers in detached mode.
- `invoke demo.stop` : Stop All the containers
- `invoke demo.destroy` : Destroy all containers and volumes.

:::info

`invoke demo.debug` can be used as an alternative to `invoke demo.start`, the main difference is that it will stay *attached* to the containers and all the logs will be displayed in real time in the CLI.

:::

## Accounts available for the tutorial

At this stage only one Account existed on Infrahub `admin`.

:::info

The default token for the Admin account is `06438eb2-8019-4776-878c-0941b1f1d1ec`
While using the API the Authentication Token must be provided in a header named `X-INFRAHUB-KEY`

:::

More accounts will be loaded with the [demo data](/topics/local-demo-environment#load-some-data).

Refer to [User management](/topics/auth/) page for more information regarding the possible rights.

To follow the tutorial you should use the `admin` account but you can try the other accounts too to see how the interface behaves with different permission levels.

| name          | username        | password      | role       |
| ------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Administrator | `admin`         | `infrahub`    | admin      |
| Chloe O'Brian | `Chloe O'Brian` | `Password123` | read-write |
| David Palmer  | `David Palmer`  | `Password123` | read-write |
| Jack Bauer    | `Jack Bauer`    | `Password123` | read-only  |

<ReferenceLink title="Access the Web interface" url="http://localhost:8000" openInNewTab />

<ReferenceLink title="Access the GraphQL interface" url="http://localhost:8000/graphql" openInNewTab />
