docs/development/docs.md, before:

---
title: Documentation guide
icon: pencil
order: 70
---

# Documentation guide

Welcome to the Infrahub documentation guide. This document aims to answer any questions that may come up when creating or updating documentation.

## Working with the docs site locally

The recommended way to run and build the docs locally is with Infrahub's suite of `invoke`-driven tasks. To run the commands, you should:

1. Install [`python`](https://www.python.org/).
2. Install [`invoke`](https://www.pyinvoke.org/).
3. Install [`poetry`](https://python-poetry.org/).
4. Run `poetry install` from the Infrahub project directory.
5. Install [Node.js(and NPM)](https://nodejs.org/en).

Once these requirements are met, you'll have access to the doc task list.

```sh
invoke -l docs
```

The primary commands are as follows:

- `invoke docs.build`: Build the documentation website.
- `invoke docs.generate`: Generate source-derived documentation pages (such as the schema and Jinja templates).
- `invoke docs.serve`: Run a local development server for the documentation website.
- `invoke docs.validate`: Validate that the generated documentation has been committed to git.

## Linting and automation

Infrahub uses [Vale](https://vale.sh) to check grammar, style, and word usage. You can find Vale's configuration in `.vale.ini`, and the Infrahub styles located in `.vale/styles/Infrahub`.

[Markdownlint](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint) is used to encourage consistent markdown files, and Infrahub's configuration is located at `.markdownlint.yaml`.

Most Vale warnings match up with the [style guide](#style-guide) explanations below. Other warnings often fall into the `Infrahub.spelling` rule. These are caused by misspellings, product names, names of people, or otherwise unknown technical terms. See the [procedures for updating rules](#spelling-errors) below for details on adding terms to the approved list.

### Install linters locally

The preferred way to work on the documentation with Vale and markdownlint is directly in an editor. Install the [Vale](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=chrischinchilla.vale-vscode) and [markdownlint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint) VS Code plugins to enable in-editor warnings.

### Disabling Vale and markdownlint

You can disable Vale and markdownlint in-line with the following markdown comments:

```md
<!-- vale off -->
Ignored Specialized Phrase ignored by vale
<!-- vale on -->

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
## Ignored markdown line
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
```

This is useful in situations where specific style choices or markdown quirks force the use of an otherwise conflicting rule. In general, it is better to update existing configurations or create new rules rather than disable scanning of individual files.

### Creating new Vale rules

For questions regarding how to add to or update an existing rule, see the [Vale styles documentation](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/styles/). A wealth of examples are also available in [GitLab's vale configuration](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/doc/.vale/gitlab).

#### Spelling errors

If Vale warns of a spelling mistake and the word is valid, you can fix it by updating the `spelling-exceptions.txt` file in the `.vale/styles/` directory. When adding a new term, update and alphabetize the list to make future scanning easier.

#### Common replacement words

Add common shorthand words and phrases that have better alternatives to the `swap.yml` rule. For example, `repo` becomes `repository`.

Add special case capitalization words to the `branded-terms-case-swap.yml` rule. For example, `Github` becomes `GitHub`.

## Writing markdown

Pages are written in markdown or generated by the app source. For markdown pages, Retype supports [most standard markdown syntax](https://retype.com/guides/formatting/).

In addition, Retype has its own [markdown-inspired components](https://retype.com/components/). You'll often find reference links, panels, and snippets used throughout the Infrahub docs.

### Markdown tips

#### Ensure proper newlines

Use two full returns between paragraphs (one empty line). This ensures a new paragraph is created.

#### Ensure proper h1 tags

Many pages include a *greymatter* or *metadata* block at the top, denoted by two sets of `---`. This is used by Retype to [configure the page](https://retype.com/faq/#what-is-page-metadata). If using the `title` attribute, also use a top-level heading `#` on the page. They do not need to be the same. If `title` is omitted, Retype will use the top-level heading (h1).

## Organizing new pages

We organize all documentation into **four** categories: tutorials, guides, topics, and reference. This is heavily influenced by the [Diátaxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/). The goal is to maintain a more organized, understandable set of docs.

Here are questions to ask when deciding where to place a new document:

- Are you walking the user through a scenario? Select **Tutorials**.
- Are you providing steps to complete a specific task? Select **Guides**.
- Are you providing background information, explanation, or abstract concepts? Select **Topics**.
- Are you providing APIs, command references, or concise reference information? Select **Reference**.

If you're unsure where something goes, diátaxis offers a [map](https://diataxis.fr/needs/) and [compass](https://diataxis.fr/compass/) to help.

### Tutorials

Tutorials are an opportunity to guide users through a repeatable process. The purpose is to **provide basic competence** in Infrahub or a feature-set.

They should:

- Introduce the user to the end goal.
- Be repeatable by any user.
- Describe practical steps, rather than abstract concepts.
- Provide immediate results.

The "Getting Started" tutorial is a good example, as it walks the user through a scripted scenario in a demo environment.

For a deeper dive into tutorials, refer to the [diátaxis tutorials page](https://diataxis.fr/tutorials/).

>Tutorials are complex learning endeavors. Before deciding if a tutorial is necessary, consider how you might update an existing tutorial or if a guide would be a better option.

### Guides

Guides may seem like tutorials, but they are a shorter set of universal instructions that can apply to any user's task. The purpose is to **teach how to perform a specific task**.

**Naming guideline:** Describe the task that the guide describes, preferably in 2-5 words.

For example:

- Installing Infrahub
- Creating new devices
- How to invite collaborators

For a deeper dive into guides, refer to the [diátaxis guides page](https://diataxis.fr/how-to-guides/).

### Topics

Sometimes called *explanations*, topics offer additional context and rationale into the workings of Infrahub. They should answer the question: "how does X work?"

**Naming guideline:** Write the topic name, but not a sentence.

For example:

- Artifact
- User management and authentication

Begin by giving a one to two sentence description of the topic, then dive in deeper as needed.

For a deeper dive into topics, refer to the [diátaxis explanations page](https://diataxis.fr/explanation/).

### Reference

Reference docs serve a single purpose. To provide quick, clear information when a user needs it. The intention is not that users *read* the reference, but instead they *consult* it as needed when working with Infrahub.

**Naming guidelines:** Mirror the code-level naming guidelines where possible. This makes it easier to connect docs to code quickly.

For a deeper dive into reference docs, refer to the [diátaxis reference page](https://diataxis.fr/reference/).

## Creating application screenshots

In an effort to keep application screenshots up to date, use [Cypress](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/overview/why-cypress) to generate images whenever possible. Refer to the [E2E tests section](/development/frontend/#e2e-tests) of the development docs for details, and reference `frontend/tests/e2e/tutorial` for examples from the [getting started](/tutorials/getting-started/) tutorial.

## Style guide

As a general rule, prefer consistency and simplicity when possible. This guide should help in making choices, but it is a living document and should evolve as the needs of the project evolve. For anything not answered below, reference the [Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

General tips:
<!-- vale off -->
- Avoid words like *easy*, *just*, or *simple* to describe how to do something or how "easy" a task is.
<!-- vale on -->
- If a sentence looks too long, it probably is. Try and simplify it or break it into multiple sentences.
- Avoid jargon unless you are sure the reader knows the term.
- Don't hesitate to link between pages and concepts.
- Avoid repeating information when possible, and instead link out to topic or reference pages.

### Language

We use American English for most standard text. Unique technical terms are [included below](#common-external-words), or in the [Microsoft A-Z word list](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

### Trailing commas

Use a trailing comma when listing multiple items. This is commonly known as the Oxford comma or serial comma.

**:x: Don't do this:** There are devices, organizations and users.

**:white_check_mark: Do this:** There are devices, organizations, and users.

### Headings and titles

Headings and titles should capitalize the first word only and end with no punctuation. The exception being any proper noun.

**:x: Don't do this**: Getting Started!

**:white_check_mark: Do this**: Getting started

Every page should have a top-level heading. Additional heading tiers can only exist if a higher tier has been used.

**:x: Don't do this**:

```md
<!-- This is missing an h2 -->
# Page title

### Smaller heading
```

### Avoid over-capitalization

It is tempting to want to capitalize all feature names. Unless the term is a named marketing feature, avoid capitalization.

**:x: Don't do this**: Git Repository, API Server, User Management

**:white_check_mark: Do this**: Git repository, API server, user management

### Lists

Capitalize the first letter of each list item. If an item is a complete sentence, give it a period at the end. If it's not, it is okay to omit punctuation. The [Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/lists) has a good explanation of how to handle list punctuation.

When listing items and descriptions, prefer the use of a colon (:) instead of a dash (-).

```md
<!-- Don't do this -->
- Not - this
- Or - this

<!-- Do this -->
- Do: this
- And: this
```

### Colons

Avoid extra spaces before a colon.

```md
<!-- Don't do this -->
Feature : Explanation of feature

<!-- Do this -->

Feature: Explanation of feature
```

### Code blocks

When creating a code block or snippet with three backticks, make sure to include a language designation.
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
~~~md
```sh
this is a shell script
```
~~~
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->

### Marking code items

Sometimes you need to mention a `function` or `ModelName`. To do so, use the inline code backticks in markdown.

### Use i.e. for examples

Prefer `i.e.` over `e.g.` or `ex.`. In a sentence, `i.e.` is surrounded by commas.

For example: *Select the current branch, i.e., 'main'.*

It's also acceptable and clearer to use "for example" or "such as".

### Common external words

Refer to external brand guidelines for capitalization rules. Here are some common spellings and uses for brands found in the Infrahub docs. Additional terms can be found in `.vale/styles/Infrahub/branded-terms-case-swap.yml`.

- GitHub
- GitLab
- Git
- RabbitMQ
- GraphQL
- MacOS
- Linux

## Documentation release checklist

Before publishing new changes to documentation, complete the following tasks:

- [ ] Generate output files for automated pages with `invoke docs.generate`.
  - [ ] Confirm build of `infrahubctl` pages.
  - [ ] Confirm build of `infrahub-cli` pages.
  - [ ] Confirm build of schema pages.
- [ ] [Generate application screenshots](#creating-application-screenshots).
- [ ] If there is a new app version, create a new release notes document in `docs/release-notes`.
- [ ] Run [linters](#linting-and-automation) and fix valid errors on all source files.
- [ ] Perform test build of docs, `invoke docs.build`.

Commit message:

Added documentation and guideline for frontend setup and testing (#1856)
* Added documentation and guidelines for frontend setup and E2E testing

* PR review for letter case

* Fix spelling

* formatting and file renamed

* Update docs/development/frontend/testing-guidelines.md

Co-authored-by: Mark Michon <hello@markmichon.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Mark Michon <hello@markmichon.com>

docs/development/docs.md, after:

---
title: Documentation guide
icon: pencil
order: 70
---

# Documentation guide

Welcome to the Infrahub documentation guide. This document aims to answer any questions that may come up when creating or updating documentation.

## Working with the docs site locally

The recommended way to run and build the docs locally is with Infrahub's suite of `invoke`-driven tasks. To run the commands, you should:

1. Install [`python`](https://www.python.org/).
2. Install [`invoke`](https://www.pyinvoke.org/).
3. Install [`poetry`](https://python-poetry.org/).
4. Run `poetry install` from the Infrahub project directory.
5. Install [Node.js (and npm)](https://nodejs.org/en).

Once these requirements are met, you'll have access to the doc task list.

```sh
invoke -l docs
```

The primary commands are as follows:

- `invoke docs.build`: Build the documentation website.
- `invoke docs.generate`: Generate source-derived documentation pages (such as the schema and Jinja templates).
- `invoke docs.serve`: Run a local development server for the documentation website.
- `invoke docs.validate`: Validate that the generated documentation has been committed to git.

## Linting and automation

Infrahub uses [Vale](https://vale.sh) to check grammar, style, and word usage. You can find Vale's configuration in `.vale.ini`, and the Infrahub styles located in `.vale/styles/Infrahub`.

[Markdownlint](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint) is used to encourage consistent markdown files, and Infrahub's configuration is located at `.markdownlint.yaml`.

Most Vale warnings match up with the [style guide](#style-guide) explanations below. Other warnings often fall into the `Infrahub.spelling` rule. These are caused by misspellings, product names, names of people, or otherwise unknown technical terms. See the [procedures for updating rules](#spelling-errors) below for details on adding terms to the approved list.

### Install linters locally

The preferred way to work on the documentation with Vale and markdownlint is directly in an editor. Install the [Vale](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=chrischinchilla.vale-vscode) and [markdownlint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint) VS Code plugins to enable in-editor warnings.

### Disabling Vale and markdownlint

You can disable Vale and markdownlint in-line with the following markdown comments:

```md
<!-- vale off -->
Ignored Specialized Phrase ignored by vale
<!-- vale on -->

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
## Ignored markdown line
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
```

This is useful in situations where specific style choices or markdown quirks force the use of an otherwise conflicting rule. In general, it is better to update existing configurations or create new rules rather than disable scanning of individual files.

### Creating new Vale rules

For questions regarding how to add to or update an existing rule, see the [Vale styles documentation](https://vale.sh/docs/topics/styles/). A wealth of examples are also available in [GitLab's vale configuration](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/doc/.vale/gitlab).

#### Spelling errors

If Vale warns of a spelling mistake and the word is valid, you can fix it by updating the `spelling-exceptions.txt` file in the `.vale/styles/` directory. When adding a new term, update and alphabetize the list to make future scanning easier.

#### Common replacement words

Add common shorthand words and phrases that have better alternatives to the `swap.yml` rule. For example, `repo` becomes `repository`.

Add special case capitalization words to the `branded-terms-case-swap.yml` rule. For example, `Github` becomes `GitHub`.

## Writing markdown

Pages are written in markdown or generated by the app source. For markdown pages, Retype supports [most standard markdown syntax](https://retype.com/guides/formatting/).

In addition, Retype has its own [markdown-inspired components](https://retype.com/components/). You'll often find reference links, panels, and snippets used throughout the Infrahub docs.

### Markdown tips

#### Ensure proper newlines

Use two full returns between paragraphs (one empty line). This ensures a new paragraph is created.

#### Ensure proper h1 tags

Many pages include a *greymatter* or *metadata* block at the top, denoted by two sets of `---`. This is used by Retype to [configure the page](https://retype.com/faq/#what-is-page-metadata). If using the `title` attribute, also use a top-level heading `#` on the page. They do not need to be the same. If `title` is omitted, Retype will use the top-level heading (h1).

## Organizing new pages

We organize all documentation into **four** categories: tutorials, guides, topics, and reference. This is heavily influenced by the [Diátaxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/). The goal is to maintain a more organized, understandable set of docs.

Here are questions to ask when deciding where to place a new document:

- Are you walking the user through a scenario? Select **Tutorials**.
- Are you providing steps to complete a specific task? Select **Guides**.
- Are you providing background information, explanation, or abstract concepts? Select **Topics**.
- Are you providing APIs, command references, or concise reference information? Select **Reference**.

If you're unsure where something goes, diátaxis offers a [map](https://diataxis.fr/needs/) and [compass](https://diataxis.fr/compass/) to help.

### Tutorials

Tutorials are an opportunity to guide users through a repeatable process. The purpose is to **provide basic competence** in Infrahub or a feature-set.

They should:

- Introduce the user to the end goal.
- Be repeatable by any user.
- Describe practical steps, rather than abstract concepts.
- Provide immediate results.

The "Getting started" tutorial is a good example, as it walks the user through a scripted scenario in a demo environment.

For a deeper dive into tutorials, refer to the [diátaxis tutorials page](https://diataxis.fr/tutorials/).

>Tutorials are complex learning endeavors. Before deciding if a tutorial is necessary, consider how you might update an existing tutorial or if a guide would be a better option.

### Guides

Guides may seem like tutorials, but they are a shorter set of universal instructions that can apply to any user's task. The purpose is to **teach how to perform a specific task**.

**Naming guideline:** Describe the task that the guide describes, preferably in 2-5 words.

For example:

- Installing Infrahub
- Creating new devices
- How to invite collaborators

For a deeper dive into guides, refer to the [diátaxis guides page](https://diataxis.fr/how-to-guides/).

### Topics

Sometimes called *explanations*, topics offer additional context and rationale into the workings of Infrahub. They should answer the question: "how does X work?"

**Naming guideline:** Write the topic name, but not a sentence.

For example:

- Artifact
- User management and authentication

Begin by giving a one to two sentence description of the topic, then dive in deeper as needed.

For a deeper dive into topics, refer to the [diátaxis explanations page](https://diataxis.fr/explanation/).

### Reference

Reference docs serve a single purpose. To provide quick, clear information when a user needs it. The intention is not that users *read* the reference, but instead they *consult* it as needed when working with Infrahub.

**Naming guidelines:** Mirror the code-level naming guidelines where possible. This makes it easier to connect docs to code quickly.

For a deeper dive into reference docs, refer to the [diátaxis reference page](https://diataxis.fr/reference/).

## Creating and updating application screenshots

To ensure that Infrahub's screenshots remain up to date and to check that our guides work properly, we use [end-to-end (e2e) tests](/development/frontend/testing-guidelines/#end-to-end-e2e-tests). You'll find the e2e tests specifically designed for tutorials located in `frontend/tests/e2e/tutorial`.

To add a new screenshot in the documentation, use this command within the tutorial e2e test:

```ts
await saveScreenshotForDocs(page, "my-screenshot-name");
```

To update all documentation screenshots, run:

```shell
cd frontend
npm run test:e2e:screenshots
```

The screenshots will be saved in `docs/media`. You can then use them in our documentation:

```markdown
![optional caption](../../media/my-screenshot-name.png)
```

## Style guide

As a general rule, prefer consistency and simplicity when possible. This guide should help in making choices, but it is a living document and should evolve as the needs of the project evolve. For anything not answered below, reference the [Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

General tips:
<!-- vale off -->
- Avoid words like *easy*, *just*, or *simple* to describe how to do something or how "easy" a task is.
<!-- vale on -->
- If a sentence looks too long, it probably is. Try and simplify it or break it into multiple sentences.
- Avoid jargon unless you are sure the reader knows the term.
- Don't hesitate to link between pages and concepts.
- Avoid repeating information when possible, and instead link out to topic or reference pages.

### Language

We use American English for most standard text. Unique technical terms are [included below](#common-external-words), or in the [Microsoft A-Z word list](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

### Trailing commas

Use a trailing comma when listing multiple items. This is commonly known as the Oxford comma or serial comma.

**:x: Don't do this:** There are devices, organizations and users.

**:white_check_mark: Do this:** There are devices, organizations, and users.

### Headings and titles

Headings and titles should capitalize the first word only and end with no punctuation. The exception being any proper noun.

**:x: Don't do this**: Getting Started!

**:white_check_mark: Do this**: Getting started

Every page should have a top-level heading. Additional heading tiers can only exist if a higher tier has been used.

**:x: Don't do this**:

```md
<!-- This is missing an h2 -->
# Page title

### Smaller heading
```

### Avoid over-capitalization

It is tempting to want to capitalize all feature names. Unless the term is a named marketing feature, avoid capitalization.

**:x: Don't do this**: Git Repository, API Server, User Management

**:white_check_mark: Do this**: Git repository, API server, user management

### Lists

Capitalize the first letter of each list item. If an item is a complete sentence, give it a period at the end. If it's not, it is okay to omit punctuation. The [Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/lists) has a good explanation of how to handle list punctuation.

When listing items and descriptions, prefer the use of a colon (:) instead of a dash (-).

```md
<!-- Don't do this -->
- Not - this
- Or - this

<!-- Do this -->
- Do: this
- And: this
```

### Colons

Avoid extra spaces before a colon.

```md
<!-- Don't do this -->
Feature : Explanation of feature

<!-- Do this -->

Feature: Explanation of feature
```

### Code blocks

When creating a code block or snippet with three backticks, make sure to include a language designation.
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
~~~md
```sh
this is a shell script
```
~~~
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->

### Marking code items

Sometimes you need to mention a `function` or `ModelName`. To do so, use the inline code backticks in markdown.

### Use i.e. for examples

Prefer `i.e.` over `e.g.` or `ex.`. In a sentence, `i.e.` is surrounded by commas.

For example: *Select the current branch, i.e., 'main'.*

It's also acceptable and clearer to use "for example" or "such as".

### Common external words

Refer to external brand guidelines for capitalization rules. Here are some common spellings and uses for brands found in the Infrahub docs. Additional terms can be found in `.vale/styles/Infrahub/branded-terms-case-swap.yml`.

- GitHub
- GitLab
- Git
- RabbitMQ
- GraphQL
- MacOS
- Linux

## Documentation release checklist

Before publishing new changes to documentation, complete the following tasks:

- [ ] Generate output files for automated pages with `invoke docs.generate`.
  - [ ] Confirm build of `infrahubctl` pages.
  - [ ] Confirm build of `infrahub-cli` pages.
  - [ ] Confirm build of schema pages.
- [ ] [Generate application screenshots](#creating-and-updating-application-screenshots).
- [ ] If there is a new app version, create a new release notes document in `docs/release-notes`.
- [ ] Run [linters](#linting-and-automation) and fix valid errors on all source files.
- [ ] Perform test build of docs, `invoke docs.build`.
