---
title: Documentation guide
icon: pencil
---

# Documentation guide

Welcome to the Infrahub documentation guide. This document aims to answer any questions that may come up when creating or updating documentation.

## Generating the docs site

The documentation runs on [Retype](https://retype.com). That said, the preferred way to run and build the docs locally is with Infrahub's suite of `invoke`-driven tasks.

In addition to `python` and `invoke`, you'll need Node.JS and NPM installed. Once these requirements are met, you'll have access to the doc task list.

```sh
invoke -l docs

Available 'docs' tasks:

  .build      Build documentation website.
  .generate   Generate documentation output from code.
  .serve      Run documentation server in development mode.
```

## Linting and automation

(Coming soon...)

## Writing markdown

Pages are written in markdown or generated by the app source. For markdown pages, Retype supports [most standard markdown syntax](https://retype.com/guides/formatting/).

In addition, Retype has its own [markdown-inspired components](https://retype.com/components/). You'll often find reference links, panels, and snippets used throughout the Infrahub docs.

### Markdown tips

#### Ensure proper newlines

Use two full returns between paragraphs (one empty line). This ensures a new paragraph is created.

#### Ensure proper h1 tags

Many pages include a *greymatter* or *metadata* block at the top, denoted by two sets of `---`. This is used by Retype to [configure the page](https://retype.com/faq/#what-is-page-metadata). If using the `title` attribute, also use a top-level heading `#` on the page. They do not need to be the same. If `title` is omitted, Retype will use the top-level heading (h1).

## Organizing new pages

We organize all documentation into **four** categories: tutorials, guides, topics, and reference. This is heavily influenced by the [Diátaxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/). The goal is to maintain a more organized, understandable set of docs.

Here are questions to ask when deciding where to place a new document:

- Are you walking the user through a scenario? Select **Tutorials**.
- Are you providing steps to complete a specific task? Select **Guides**.
- Are you providing background information, explanation, or abstract concepts? Select **Topics**.
- Are you providing APIs, command references, or concise reference information? Select **Reference**.

If you're unsure where something goes, diátaxis offers a [map](https://diataxis.fr/needs/) and [compass](https://diataxis.fr/compass/) to help.

### Tutorials

Tutorials are an opportunity to guide users through a repeatable process. The purpose is to **provide basic competence** in Infrahub or a feature-set.

They should:

- Introduce the user to the end goal.
- Be repeatable by any user.
- Describe practical steps, rather than abstract concepts.
- Provide immediate results.

The "Getting Started" tutorial is a good example, as it walks the user through a scripted scenario in a demo environment.

For a deeper dive into tutorials, refer to the [diátaxis tutorials page](https://diataxis.fr/tutorials/).

>Tutorials are complex learning endeavors. Before deciding if a tutorial is necessary, consider how you might update an existing tutorial or if a guide would be a better option.

### Guides

Guides may seem like tutorials, but they are a shorter set of universal instructions that can apply to any user's task. The purpose is to **teach how to perform a specific task**.

**Naming guideline:** Describe the task that the guide describes, preferably in 2-5 words.

For example:

- Installing Infrahub
- Creating new devices
- How to invite collaborators

For a deeper dive into guides, refer to the [diátaxis guides page](https://diataxis.fr/how-to-guides/).

### Topics

Sometimes called *explanations*, topics offer additional context and rationale into the workings of Infrahub. They should answer the question: "how does X work?"

**Naming guideline:** Write the topic name, but not a sentence.

For example:

- Artifact
- User management and authentication

Begin by giving a one to two sentence description of the topic, then dive in deeper as needed.

For a deeper dive into topics, refer to the [diátaxis explanations page](https://diataxis.fr/explanation/).

### Reference

Reference docs serve a single purpose. To provide quick, clear information when a user needs it. The intention is not that users *read* the reference, but instead they *consult* it as needed when working with Infrahub.

**Naming guidelines:** Mirror the code-level naming guidelines where possible. This makes it easier to connect docs to code quickly.

For a deeper dive into reference docs, refer to the [diátaxis reference page](https://diataxis.fr/reference/).

## Style Guide

As a general rule, prefer consistency and simplicity when possible. This guide should help in making choices, but it is a living document and should evolve as the needs of the project evolve. For anything not answered below, reference the [Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

General tips:

- Avoid words like *easy*, *just*, or *simple* to describe how to do something or how "easy" a task is.
- If a sentence looks too long, it probably is. Try and simplify it or break it into multiple sentences.
- Avoid jargon unless you are sure the reader knows the term.
- Don't hesitate to link between pages and concepts.
- Avoid repeating information when possible, and instead link out to topic or reference pages.

### Language

We use American English for most standard text. Unique technical terms are [included below](#common-external-words), or in the [Microsoft A-Z word list](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/).

### Trailing Commas

Use a trailing comma when listing multiple items. This is commonly known as the Oxford comma or serial comma.

**:x: Don't do this:** There are devices, organizations and users.

**:white_check_mark: Do this:** There are devices, organizations, and users.

### Headings and titles

Headings and titles should capitalize the first word only and end with no punctuation. The exception being any proper noun.

**:x: Don't do this**: Getting Started!

**:white_check_mark: Do this**: Getting started

Every page should have a top-level heading. Additional heading tiers can only exist if a higher tier has been used.

**:x: Don't do this**:

```md
<!-- This is missing an h2 -->
# Page title

### Smaller heading
```

### Avoid over-capitalization

It is tempting to want to capitalize all feature names. Unless the term is a named marketing feature, avoid capitalization.

**:x: Don't do this**: Git Repository, API Server, User Management

**:white_check_mark: Do this**: Git repository, API server, user management

### Lists

Capitalize the first letter of each list item. If an item is a complete sentence, give it a period at the end. If it's not, it is okay to omit punctuation. The [Microsoft Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/lists) has a good explanation of how to handle list punctuation.

When listing items and descriptions, prefer the use of a colon (:) instead of a dash (-).

```md
<!-- Don't do this -->
- Not - this
- Or - this

<!-- Do this -->
- Do: this
- And: this
```

### Colons

Avoid extra spaces before a colon.

```md
<!-- Don't do this -->
Feature : Explanation of feature

<!-- Do this -->

Feature: Explanation of feature
```

### Code blocks

When creating a code block or snippet with three backticks, make sure to include a language designation.

~~~md
```sh
this is a shell script
```
~~~


### Marking code items

Sometimes you need to mention a `function` or `ModelName`. To do so, use the inline code backticks in markdown.

### Use i.e. for examples

Prefer `i.e.` over `e.g.` or `ex.`. In a sentence, `i.e.` is surrounded by commas.

For example: *Select the current branch, i.e., 'main'.*

It's also acceptable to use "for example" or "such as".

### Common external words

Refer to external brand guidelines for capitalizations. Here are some common spellings and uses for brands found in the Infrahub docs.

- GitHub
- GitLab
- Git
- RabbitMQ
- GraphQL
- MacOS
- Linux
