docs/docs/reference/schema/attribute.mdx, before:

---
title: Attribute
---

<!-- vale off -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD012 -->

# Attribute

In a schema file, an attribute can be defined inside a `node`, a `generic` or a `node extension`.

## Summary

Below is the list of all available options to define an Attribute in the schema

| Name | Type | Description | Mandatory |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | --------- |
| [**branch**](#branch) | Attribute | Type of branch support for the attribute, if not defined it will be inherited from the node. | False |
| [**choices**](#choices) | Attribute | Define a list of valid choices for a dropdown attribute. | False |
| [**default_value**](#default_value) | Attribute | Default value of the attribute. | False |
| [**description**](#description) | Attribute | Short description of the attribute. | False |
| [**enum**](#enum) | Attribute | Define a list of valid values for the attribute. | False |
| [**kind**](#kind) | Attribute | Defines the type of the attribute. | True |
| [**label**](#label) | Attribute | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided | False |
| [**max_length**](#max_length) | Attribute | Set a maximum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. | False |
| [**min_length**](#min_length) | Attribute | Set a minimum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. | False |
| [**name**](#name) | Attribute | Attribute name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. | True |
| [**optional**](#optional) | Attribute | Indicate if this attribute is mandatory or optional. | False |
| [**order_weight**](#order_weight) | Attribute | Number used to order the attribute in the frontend (table and view). | False |
| [**read_only**](#read_only) | Attribute | Set the attribute as Read-Only, users won't be able to change its value. Mainly relevant for internal object. | False |
| [**regex**](#regex) | Attribute | Regex uses to limit limit the characters allowed in for the attributes. | False |
| [**unique**](#unique) | Attribute | Indicate if the value of this attribute must be unique in the database for a given model. | False |

## Example

```yaml
nodes:
  - name: Rack
    attributes:
      - name: name
        kind: Text
        unique: True
        description: Unique identifier for the rack
extensions:
  nodes:
    - kind: CoreProposedChange
      attribute:
        - name: ticket_id
            kind: Text
            unique: True
            optional: False
            description: Internal Ticket ID from Service Now
```

## Reference Guide

### branch

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | branch |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Type of branch support for the attribute, if not defined it will be inherited from the node. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `aware` `agnostic` `local` |

### choices

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | choices |
| **Kind** | `List` |
| **Description** | Define a list of valid choices for a dropdown attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### default_value

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | default_value |
| **Kind** | `Any` |
| **Description** | Default value of the attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### description

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | description |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Short description of the attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 128 |

### enum

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | enum |
| **Kind** | `List` |
| **Description** | Define a list of valid values for the attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### inherited

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | inherited |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Internal value to indicate if the attribute was inherited from a Generic node. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### kind

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | kind |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines the type of the attribute. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `ID` `Dropdown` `Text` `TextArea` `DateTime` `Email` `Password` `HashedPassword` `URL` `File` `MacAddress` `Color` `Number` `Bandwidth` `IPHost` `IPNetwork` `Boolean` `Checkbox` `List` `JSON` `Any` |

### label

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | label |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 32 |

### max_length

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | max_length |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Set a maximum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### min_length

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | min_length |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Set a minimum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### name

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | name |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Attribute name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[a-z0-9\_]+$`<br /> Length: min 3, max 32 |

### optional

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | optional |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Indicate if this attribute is mandatory or optional. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | True |
| **Constraints** |  |

### order_weight

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | order_weight |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Number used to order the attribute in the frontend (table and view). |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### read_only

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | read_only |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Set the attribute as Read-Only, users won't be able to change its value. Mainly relevant for internal object. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### regex

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | regex |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Regex uses to limit limit the characters allowed in for the attributes. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### unique

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | unique |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Indicate if the value of this attribute must be unique in the database for a given model. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

## node

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | node |
| **Kind** | `Object` |
| **Description** |  |

Commit message:

Add state, change update status of unsupported items

docs/docs/reference/schema/attribute.mdx, after:

---
title: Attribute
---

<!-- vale off -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD012 -->

# Attribute

In a schema file, an attribute can be defined inside a `node`, a `generic` or a `node extension`.

## Summary

Below is the list of all available options to define an Attribute in the schema

| Name | Type | Description | Mandatory |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | --------- |
| [**branch**](#branch) | Attribute | Type of branch support for the attribute, if not defined it will be inherited from the node. | False |
| [**choices**](#choices) | Attribute | Define a list of valid choices for a dropdown attribute. | False |
| [**default_value**](#default_value) | Attribute | Default value of the attribute. | False |
| [**description**](#description) | Attribute | Short description of the attribute. | False |
| [**enum**](#enum) | Attribute | Define a list of valid values for the attribute. | False |
| [**kind**](#kind) | Attribute | Defines the type of the attribute. | True |
| [**label**](#label) | Attribute | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided | False |
| [**max_length**](#max_length) | Attribute | Set a maximum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. | False |
| [**min_length**](#min_length) | Attribute | Set a minimum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. | False |
| [**name**](#name) | Attribute | Attribute name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. | True |
| [**optional**](#optional) | Attribute | Indicate if this attribute is mandatory or optional. | False |
| [**order_weight**](#order_weight) | Attribute | Number used to order the attribute in the frontend (table and view). | False |
| [**read_only**](#read_only) | Attribute | Set the attribute as Read-Only, users won't be able to change its value. Mainly relevant for internal object. | False |
| [**regex**](#regex) | Attribute | Regex uses to limit limit the characters allowed in for the attributes. | False |
| [**state**](#state) | Attribute | Expected state of the attribute after loading the schema | False |
| [**unique**](#unique) | Attribute | Indicate if the value of this attribute must be unique in the database for a given model. | False |

## Example

```yaml
nodes:
  - name: Rack
    attributes:
      - name: name
        kind: Text
        unique: True
        description: Unique identifier for the rack
extensions:
  nodes:
    - kind: CoreProposedChange
      attribute:
        - name: ticket_id
            kind: Text
            unique: True
            optional: False
            description: Internal Ticket ID from Service Now
```

## Reference Guide

### branch

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | branch |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Type of branch support for the attribute, if not defined it will be inherited from the node. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `aware` `agnostic` `local` |

### choices

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | choices |
| **Kind** | `List` |
| **Description** | Define a list of valid choices for a dropdown attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### default_value

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | default_value |
| **Kind** | `Any` |
| **Description** | Default value of the attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### description

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | description |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Short description of the attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 128 |

### enum

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | enum |
| **Kind** | `List` |
| **Description** | Define a list of valid values for the attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### inherited

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | inherited |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Internal value to indicate if the attribute was inherited from a Generic node. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### kind

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | kind |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines the type of the attribute. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `ID` `Dropdown` `Text` `TextArea` `DateTime` `Email` `Password` `HashedPassword` `URL` `File` `MacAddress` `Color` `Number` `Bandwidth` `IPHost` `IPNetwork` `Boolean` `Checkbox` `List` `JSON` `Any` |

### label

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | label |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 32 |

### max_length

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | max_length |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Set a maximum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### min_length

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | min_length |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Set a minimum number of characters allowed for a given attribute. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### name

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | name |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Attribute name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[a-z0-9\_]+$`<br /> Length: min 3, max 32 |

### optional

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | optional |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Indicate if this attribute is mandatory or optional. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | True |
| **Constraints** |  |

### order_weight

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | order_weight |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Number used to order the attribute in the frontend (table and view). |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### read_only

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | read_only |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Set the attribute as Read-Only, users won't be able to change its value. Mainly relevant for internal object. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### regex

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | regex |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Regex uses to limit limit the characters allowed in for the attributes. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### state

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | state |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Expected state of the attribute after loading the schema |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | present |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `present` `absent` |

### unique

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | unique |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Indicate if the value of this attribute must be unique in the database for a given model. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

## node

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | node |
| **Kind** | `Object` |
| **Description** |  |
