docs/docs/reference/schema/relationship.mdx, before:

---
title: Relationship
---

<!-- vale off -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD012 -->

# Relationship

In a schema file, a relationship can be defined inside a `node`, a `generic` or a `node extension`.

## Summary

Below is the list of all available options to define a Relationship in the schema

| Name | Type | Description | Mandatory |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | --------- |
| [**branch**](#branch) | Attribute | Type of branch support for the relatioinship, if not defined it will be determine based both peers. | False |
| [**cardinality**](#cardinality) | Attribute | Defines how many objects are expected on the other side of the relationship. | False |
| [**description**](#description) | Attribute | Short description of the relationship. | False |
| [**direction**](#direction) | Attribute | Defines the direction of the relationship,  Unidirectional relationship are required when the same model is on both side. | False |
| [**hierarchical**](#hierarchical) | Attribute | Internal attribute to track the type of hierarchy this relationship is part of, must match a valid Generic Kind | False |
| [**identifier**](#identifier) | Attribute | Unique identifier of the relationship within a model, identifiers must match to traverse a relationship on both direction. | False |
| [**kind**](#kind) | Attribute | Defines the type of the relationship. | True |
| [**label**](#label) | Attribute | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided | False |
| [**max_count**](#max_count) | Attribute | Defines the maximum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. | False |
| [**min_count**](#min_count) | Attribute | Defines the minimum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. | False |
| [**name**](#name) | Attribute | Relationship name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. | True |
| [**optional**](#optional) | Attribute | Indicate if this relationship is mandatory or optional. | False |
| [**order_weight**](#order_weight) | Attribute | Number used to order the relationship in the frontend (table and view). | False |
| [**peer**](#peer) | Attribute | Type (kind) of objects supported on the other end of the relationship. | True |

## Reference Guide

### branch

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | branch |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Type of branch support for the relatioinship, if not defined it will be determine based both peers. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `aware` `agnostic` `local`  |

### cardinality

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | cardinality |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines how many objects are expected on the other side of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | many |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `one` `many`  |

### description

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | description |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Short description of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 128 |

### direction

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | direction |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines the direction of the relationship,  Unidirectional relationship are required when the same model is on both side. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | bidirectional |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `bidirectional` `outbound` `inbound`  |

### hierarchical

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | hierarchical |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Internal attribute to track the type of hierarchy this relationship is part of, must match a valid Generic Kind |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### identifier

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | identifier |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Unique identifier of the relationship within a model, identifiers must match to traverse a relationship on both direction. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[a-z0-9\_]+$`<br /> Length: min -, max 128 |

### inherited

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | inherited |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Internal value to indicate if the relationship was inherited from a Generic node. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### kind

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | kind |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines the type of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** | Generic |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `Generic` `Attribute` `Component` `Parent` `Group` `Hierarchy`  |

### label

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | label |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 32 |

### max_count

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | max_count |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Defines the maximum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | 0 |
| **Constraints** |  |

### min_count

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | min_count |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Defines the minimum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | 0 |
| **Constraints** |  |

### name

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | name |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Relationship name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[a-z0-9\_]+$`<br /> Length: min 3, max 32 |

### optional

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | optional |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Indicate if this relationship is mandatory or optional. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### order_weight

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | order_weight |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Number used to order the relationship in the frontend (table and view). |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### peer

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | peer |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Type (kind) of objects supported on the other end of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[A-Z][a-zA-Z0-9]+$`<br /> Length: min 3, max 32 |

## node

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | node |
| **Kind** | `Object` |
| **Description** |  |

Commit message:

Add state, change update status of unsupported items

docs/docs/reference/schema/relationship.mdx, after:

---
title: Relationship
---

<!-- vale off -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD012 -->

# Relationship

In a schema file, a relationship can be defined inside a `node`, a `generic` or a `node extension`.

## Summary

Below is the list of all available options to define a Relationship in the schema

| Name | Type | Description | Mandatory |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | --------- |
| [**branch**](#branch) | Attribute | Type of branch support for the relatioinship, if not defined it will be determine based both peers. | False |
| [**cardinality**](#cardinality) | Attribute | Defines how many objects are expected on the other side of the relationship. | False |
| [**description**](#description) | Attribute | Short description of the relationship. | False |
| [**direction**](#direction) | Attribute | Defines the direction of the relationship,  Unidirectional relationship are required when the same model is on both side. | False |
| [**hierarchical**](#hierarchical) | Attribute | Internal attribute to track the type of hierarchy this relationship is part of, must match a valid Generic Kind | False |
| [**identifier**](#identifier) | Attribute | Unique identifier of the relationship within a model, identifiers must match to traverse a relationship on both direction. | False |
| [**kind**](#kind) | Attribute | Defines the type of the relationship. | True |
| [**label**](#label) | Attribute | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided | False |
| [**max_count**](#max_count) | Attribute | Defines the maximum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. | False |
| [**min_count**](#min_count) | Attribute | Defines the minimum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. | False |
| [**name**](#name) | Attribute | Relationship name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. | True |
| [**optional**](#optional) | Attribute | Indicate if this relationship is mandatory or optional. | False |
| [**order_weight**](#order_weight) | Attribute | Number used to order the relationship in the frontend (table and view). | False |
| [**peer**](#peer) | Attribute | Type (kind) of objects supported on the other end of the relationship. | True |
| [**state**](#state) | Attribute | Expected state of the relationship after loading the schema | False |

## Reference Guide

### branch

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | branch |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Type of branch support for the relatioinship, if not defined it will be determine based both peers. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `aware` `agnostic` `local`  |

### cardinality

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | cardinality |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines how many objects are expected on the other side of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | many |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `one` `many`  |

### description

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | description |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Short description of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 128 |

### direction

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | direction |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines the direction of the relationship,  Unidirectional relationship are required when the same model is on both side. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | bidirectional |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `bidirectional` `outbound` `inbound`  |

### hierarchical

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | hierarchical |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Internal attribute to track the type of hierarchy this relationship is part of, must match a valid Generic Kind |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### identifier

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | identifier |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Unique identifier of the relationship within a model, identifiers must match to traverse a relationship on both direction. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[a-z0-9\_]+$`<br /> Length: min -, max 128 |

### inherited

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | inherited |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Internal value to indicate if the relationship was inherited from a Generic node. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### kind

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | kind |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Defines the type of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** | Generic |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `Generic` `Attribute` `Component` `Parent` `Group` `Hierarchy`  |

### label

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | label |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Human friendly representation of the name. Will be autogenerated if not provided |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Length: min -, max 32 |

### max_count

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | max_count |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Defines the maximum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | 0 |
| **Constraints** |  |

### min_count

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | min_count |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Defines the minimum objects allowed on the other side of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | 0 |
| **Constraints** |  |

### name

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | name |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Relationship name, must be unique within a model and must be all lowercase. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[a-z0-9\_]+$`<br /> Length: min 3, max 32 |

### optional

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | optional |
| **Kind** | `Boolean` |
| **Description** | Indicate if this relationship is mandatory or optional. |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | False |
| **Constraints** |  |

### order_weight

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | order_weight |
| **Kind** | `Number` |
| **Description** | Number used to order the relationship in the frontend (table and view). |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  |

### peer

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | peer |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Type (kind) of objects supported on the other end of the relationship. |
| **Optional** | False |
| **Default Value** |  |
| **Constraints** |  Regex: `^[A-Z][a-zA-Z0-9]+$`<br /> Length: min 3, max 32 |

### state

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | state |
| **Kind** | `Text` |
| **Description** | Expected state of the relationship after loading the schema |
| **Optional** | True |
| **Default Value** | present |
| **Constraints** |  |
| **Accepted Values** | `present` `absent`  |

## node

| Key | Value |
| ---- | --------------- |
| **Name** | node |
| **Kind** | `Object` |
| **Description** |  |
