docs/docs/python-sdk/readme.mdx, before:

---
title: Python SDK
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Python SDK

The Infrahub Python SDK greatly simplifies how you can interact with Infrahub programmatically.

## Installation

The Infrahub SDK for Python is available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/infrahub-sdk/) and can be installed using the `pip` package installer. It is recommended to install the SDK into a virtual environment.

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install infrahub-sdk
```

## Getting started

The SDK supports both synchronous and asynchronous Python. The default asynchronous version is provided by the `InfrahubClient` class while the synchronous version uses the `InfrahubClientSync` class.

### Dynamic schema discovery

By default, the Python client will automatically gather the active schema from Infrahub and all methods will generate based on that.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Async" default>

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClient

  client = await InfrahubClient.init(address="http://localhost:8000")
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Sync">

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClientSync

  client = InfrahubClientSync.init(address="http://localhost:8000")
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Authentication

The SDK is using a token-based authentication method to authenticate with the API and GraphQL.

The token can either be provided with `config=Config(api_token="TOKEN")` at initialization time or it can be retrieved automatically from the environment variable `INFRAHUB_SDK_API_TOKEN`.

:::info

In the demo environment, the default token for the Admin account is

```yaml
X-INFRAHUB-KEY: 06438eb2-8019-4776-878c-0941b1f1d1ec
```

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Async" default>

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClient, Config

  client = await InfrahubClient.init(config=Config(api_token="TOKEN"))
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Sync">

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClientSync, Config

  client = InfrahubClientSync.init(config=Config(api_token="TOKEN"))
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Python SDK dependency cleanup (#2290)
Some dependencies have been marked as optional, and allow more version ranges.
The optional dependencies have also been moved to be installed when using extras.
Two extras have been introduced: `ctl` and `tests`

Using the `infrahubctl` command requires the `ctl` extra but should fail gracefully if not installed.

docs/docs/python-sdk/readme.mdx, after:

---
title: Python SDK
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Python SDK

The Infrahub Python SDK greatly simplifies how you can interact with Infrahub programmatically.

## Installation

The Infrahub SDK for Python is available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/infrahub-sdk/) and can be installed using the `pip` package installer. It is recommended to install the SDK into a virtual environment.

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install infrahub-sdk
```

Some features of the SDK such as the test framework are only available after installing extras of the initial packages. Available extras are:

* `ctl` which is required for running infrahubctl commands
* `tests` which is required for using the test framework

You can install extras using pip:

```bash
pip install 'infrahub-sdk[tests]'
```

If you want a SDK installation allowing you to use all the features you can use:

```bash
pip install 'infrahub-sdk[all]'
```

## Getting started

The SDK supports both synchronous and asynchronous Python. The default asynchronous version is provided by the `InfrahubClient` class while the synchronous version uses the `InfrahubClientSync` class.

### Dynamic schema discovery

By default, the Python client will automatically gather the active schema from Infrahub and all methods will generate based on that.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Async" default>

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClient

  client = await InfrahubClient.init(address="http://localhost:8000")
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Sync">

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClientSync

  client = InfrahubClientSync.init(address="http://localhost:8000")
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Authentication

The SDK is using a token-based authentication method to authenticate with the API and GraphQL.

The token can either be provided with `config=Config(api_token="TOKEN")` at initialization time or it can be retrieved automatically from the environment variable `INFRAHUB_SDK_API_TOKEN`.

:::info

In the demo environment, the default token for the Admin account is

```yaml
X-INFRAHUB-KEY: 06438eb2-8019-4776-878c-0941b1f1d1ec
```

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Async" default>

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClient, Config

  client = await InfrahubClient.init(config=Config(api_token="TOKEN"))
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Sync">

  ```python
  from infrahub_sdk import InfrahubClientSync, Config

  client = InfrahubClientSync.init(config=Config(api_token="TOKEN"))
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
